# Investigate a Dataset - [TMDb Movie Dataset]

## by (ODINIGWE CHINYERE ROSEMARY)


## Dataset

> The TMDb Movies dataset is a dataset containing over 10,000 movies collected fromThe Movie Database(TMDb) with various features regarding this movies with which we will use to generate useful insights such as feautures that determine popularity of movies, the profits, losses, revenues, budget and their correlations. The dataset contains the following columns and its descriptions
id - Identification Number.

* imdb_id - IMDb Identification Number.
* popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
* budget - The budget of the movie.
* revenue - The revenue generated by the movie.
* original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
* cast - The name of lead and supporting actors separated by "|".
* homepage - The link to the homepage of the movie.
* director - Director of the movie.
* tagline - A catchprase describing the movie.
* keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
* overview - A brief description/summary of the movie.
* runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
* genre - The genre of the movie i.e Action, Comedy, Romance, Thriller etc separated by "|".
* production_companies - The production compan(y/of the movie.
* release_date - The date on which the movie was released.
* vote_count- The number of person that voted the movie.


### Data Wrangling
Here is a summary of my data cleaning process

- Dropped missing values and columns not needed
- Dropped duplicates
- Converted each features with incorrect data type to the appropriate data type
- Cleaned the genre column

### Questions for Analysis
Here is a summary of my data cleaning process

1. Do movies with higher budget get better popularity?
2. Which genres are most popular?
3. Which year has the highest number of movies released ?
4. Which genre has the highest count of movies released?
5. What features are associated with high revenue movies ?


## Summary of Findings

 1. Movies with higher budget tends to have better popularity 
 2. The 3 most popular genres are Adventure,science fiction and fantasy 
 3. The year 2014 year has the highest release of movies (1445) followed by year 2015 (1372) and year 2013 (1369). 
 4. The genre with the highest number of movies released is Action, followed by Comedy and then Thriller 
 5. The scatter plots indicates the movies with higher revenues are associated with higher budget and high profits